Update docs for `nyu_depth_v2` dataset (#5484)
huggingface/datasets: docs/source/depth_estimation.mdx

>>> example = train_dataset[index]
>>> example
{'image': <PIL.PngImagePlugin.PngImageFile image mode=RGB size=640x480>,
 'depth_map': <PIL.TiffImagePlugin.TiffImageFile image mode=F size=640x480>}
```

The dataset has two fields:

* `image`: a PIL PNG image object with `uint8` data type.
* `depth_map`: a PIL Tiff image object with `float32` data type which is the depth map of the image.

> It is mention-worthy that, JPEG/PNG format can only store `uint8` or `uint16` data. As depth map is `float32` data, it can't be stored using PNG/JPEG. However, we can save depth map using TIFF format as it supports a wider range of data types, including `float32` data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is mention-worthy that JPEG/PNG format can only store `uint8` or `uint16` data. As the depth map is `float32` data, it can't be stored using PNG/JPEG. However, we can save the depth map using TIFF format as it supports a wider range of data types, including `float32` data.
```

>>> example = train_dataset[index]
>>> example
{'image': <PIL.PngImagePlugin.PngImageFile image mode=RGB size=640x480>,

>  'depth_map': <PIL.TiffImagePlugin.TiffImageFile image mode=F size=640x480>}

Reviewer: This is new type which we should consider explaining.

Author: Simple explanation: "When it comes to storing data, JPEG and PNG are quite picky as they accept 8-bit or 16-bit unsigned integer data. However, However, TIFF is more flexible and supports a wider range of data types, including 32-bit floating point data. So if you need to store float32 data, TIFF is our best bet."

Reviewer: Sounds good to me! 

@lhoestq WDYT?

Reviewer 2: Sounds good to me as well :)

    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/datasets/depth_est_sample.png">
</div>

Before we look at the depth map, we need to first convert its data type to `uint8` using `.convert('RGB')` as PIL can't display `float32` images. Now take a look at its corresponding depth map:

```py
>>> example["depth_map"].convert("RGB")
```

<div class="flex justify-center">
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/datasets/depth_est_target.png">
</div>

> It's all black! You'll need to add some color to the depth map to visualize it properly. In order to do that, either we can apply color automatically during display using `plt.imshow()` or create color depth map using `plt.cm` then display it. In this example we have used the latter one, as we can save/write the colored depth map later. (the utility below is taken from the [FastDepth repository](https://github.com/dwofk/fast-depth/blob/master/utils.py)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's all black! You'll need to add some color to the depth map to visualize it properly. To do that, either we can apply color automatically during display using `plt.imshow()` or create a colored depth map using `plt.cm` and then display it. In this example, we have used the latter one, as we can save/write the colored depth map later. (the utility below is taken from the [FastDepth repository](https://github.com/dwofk/fast-depth/blob/master/utils.py)).
```

Now take a look at its corresponding depth map:

```py

> >>> example["depth_map"].convert("RGB")

Reviewer: Consider explaining why are we doing this.

Author: Otherwise, it will throw error. As now datatype is `float32`.

Author: Should I just mention that dtype is `float32` and we need `uint8` hence the `.convert('RGB')`?
Btw if we use `plt.imshow(np.array(example["depth_map"]))` it will directly show colorize depth_map but again it will require more code change.

Reviewer: Yeah just mentioning it sounds good. 

Regarding the second point, could you elaborate?

Author: For context, both code snippets below would give the same colored depth_map.

code1: 
```py
>>> def show_depthmap(depth_map):
...    if not isinstance(depth_map, np.ndarray):
...        depth_map = np.array(depth_map)

...    d_min = np.min(depth_map)
...    d_max = np.max(depth_map)
...    depth_map = colored_depthmap(depth_map, d_min, d_max)

...    plt.imshow(depth_map.astype("uint8"))
...    plt.axis("off")
...    plt.show()
```
code2:
```py
>>> def show_depthmap(depth_map):
...    if not isinstance(depth_map, np.ndarray):
...        depth_map = np.array(depth_map)

...    plt.imshow(depth_map)
...    plt.axis("off")
...    plt.show()
```

Initially depth_map is black as we're displaying it using `example["depth_map"].convert('RGB')` (PIL). If we had used `plt.imshow(np.array(example["depth_map"])` instead, we would've seen color depth_map directly. Because `plt.imshow` applies color/colormap automatically for a 2d array. 

So, even though we initially used PIL for displaying depth_map but in the end, we're using `plt.imshow()` in `show_depth_map`. So, for a reader, it might not be clear that if we want to use `plt.imshow` in the first place then why use manual colorization?

Reviewer: Thanks for explaining! 

I guess this is because of the type changes introduced in the last release. With an earlier `datasets` version, I don't think it would have been the case. No?

Author: Even with the previous release, we would've gotten the same result. As for the 2d array `plt.imshow()` applies colormap automatically regardless of the `dtype` and also personally I did get the same result from the previous release. 

So, should I reduce the code and get rid of `colored_depthmap`? Or mention in the comment that even though manual colorization was performed but we would've gotten the same result using `plt.imshow()` as it applies colormap automatically?

Reviewer: I guess commenting might be better as that way users will know how to deal with cases when colorization cannot be perfomed / inferred automatically. WDYT?

Author: Yes I agree. Manual colorization is helpful when we want to save depth colors. By default, depth_map is 2D gray image.

```

<div class="flex justify-center">

>     <img src="https://i.postimg.cc/fLWRs5SN/depth-est-collage.png">

Reviewer: Open a PR adding these assets as Git-LFS here: https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/

Don't forget to optimize the images so that the page loading is optimal (you can use a tool like ImageOptim for this).

Author: Will do

Author: Regarding this, I can't seem to clone the repo in the local or remote system, getting this error,
```
Cloning into 'documentation-images'...
error: RPC failed; HTTP 504 curl 22 The requested URL returned error: 504
fatal: the remote end hung up unexpectedly
```

Reviewer: Maybe because of the platform outage. Could you try now?

Author: Yes it worked now

Author: Created the PR, https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/discussions/40

Author: @sayakpaul  I just realized I forgot to use lfs in my PR but it has already been merged. Should I create another PR?

Author: @sayakpaul should I create another PR on https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images with lfs?

Reviewer: Sure.

Author: @sayakpaul  created the PR, https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/discussions/41
